[Maintenance] Enhance and Reorganize Upgrade Files (#15947)
Sylius/Sylius: UPGRADE-API-1.13.md

# UPGRADE FROM `v1.12.x` TO `v1.13.0`

> Starting from Sylius 1.13, the API Bundle is no longer experimental and is now following the same support policy as the
> rest of the Sylius components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ApiBundle is no longer experimental and is now following the same support policy as the rest of Sylius.
```

### Classes signature changes

1. The following Command Handlers constructor signatures have changed:

   `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\CommandHandler\Account\SendAccountRegistrationEmailHandler`:

>     ```php

Reviewer: All of these should be `diff` instead of `php`

   
        public function __construct(
    -       private SenderInterface $emailSender,
            private OrderRepositoryInterface $orderRepository,
    +       private OrderEmailManagerInterface $orderEmailManager,
        )
    ```

   `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\CommandHandler\Checkout\SendShipmentConfirmationEmailHandler`:
    ```php
    use Sylius\Bundle\CoreBundle\Mailer\ShipmentEmailManagerInterface;
    use Sylius\Component\Mailer\Sender\SenderInterface;

        public function __construct(
    -       private SenderInterface $emailSender,
            private ShipmentRepositoryInterface $shipmentRepository,
    +       private ShipmentEmailManagerInterface $shipmentEmailManager,
        )
    ```

   `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\CommandHandler\SendContactRequestHandler`:
    ```php
    use Sylius\Bundle\CoreBundle\Mailer\ContactEmailManagerInterface;
    use Sylius\Component\Mailer\Sender\SenderInterface;

        public function __construct(
    -       private SenderInterface $emailSender,
            private ChannelRepositoryInterface $channelRepository,
    +       private ContactEmailManagerInterface $contactEmailManager,
        )
    ```

> 1. The constructor of `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Serializer\ChannelDenormalizer` has been changed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The constructor signature of `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Serializer\ChannelDenormalizer` has been changed:
```
Maybe we should make the phrasing a bit more consistent everywhere

    ```diff
    use Sylius\Component\Resource\Factory\FactoryInterface;
    
        public function __construct(
            private FactoryInterface $channelPriceHistoryConfigFactory,
    +       private FactoryInterface $shopBillingDataFactory
        )
    ```

1. The constructor signature of `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\EventSubscriber\TaxonDeletionEventSubscriber` has been changed:

    ```diff
    use Sylius\Component\Core\Promotion\Checker\TaxonInPromotionRuleCheckerInterface;
   
        public function __construct(
            private ChannelRepositoryInterface $channelRepository,
    +       private TaxonInPromotionRuleCheckerInterface $taxonInPromotionRuleChecker,
        )
    ```

1. The constructor signature of `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Command\Account\ChangeShopUserPassword` command changed:

    ```diff
        public function __construct(
    -       public ?string $newPassword, 
    +       public string $newPassword, 
    -       public ?string $confirmNewPassword,
    +       public string $confirmNewPassword,
    -       public ?string $currentPassword,
    +       public string $currentPassword,
        )

>     ```

Reviewer: Maybe group all command changes in their own section?

    +       public string $comment,
            public string $productCode,
            public ?string $email = null,
        )
    ```

1. The constructor signature of `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Command\Account\VerifyCustomerAccount` changed:

    ```php
        public function __construct(
    -       public $token,
    +       public string $token,
    +       public ?string $channelCode = null,
    +       public ?string $localeCode = null,
        ) {
        }
    ```

> 1. The `ApiPlatform\Core\Bridge\Symfony\Bundle\Action\SwaggerUiAction` controller has been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\ApiPlatform\Bridge\Symfony\Bundle\Action\SwaggerUiAction` controller has been removed.
```

    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Controller\GetProductBySlugAction`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Controller\UploadAvatarImageAction`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\EventListener\AdminAuthenticationSuccessListener`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\EventListener\AuthenticationSuccessListener`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Filter\Doctrine\CatalogPromotionChannelFilter`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Filter\Doctrine\ProductVariantCatalogPromotionFilter`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Filter\Doctrine\ProductVariantOptionValueFilter`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Filter\Doctrine\ProductVariantOptionValueFilter`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Filter\Doctrine\TaxonFilter`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Serializer\ChannelPriceHistoryConfigDenormalizer`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Serializer\ProductNormalizer`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Serializer\ProductVariantNormalizer`
    * `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Serializer\ZoneDenormalizer`

1. The `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Filter\Doctrine\CatalogPromotionChannelFilter` service and class has been renamed
   to `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Filter\Doctrine\ChannelsAwareChannelFilter`.

> ### Endpoints changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Resources changes
```
or
```suggestion
### Usage changes
```
or something like that.
There are more than just endpoints' differences described in this section.

1. The item operation paths for ProductVariantTranslation resource changed:

    - `GET /admin/product-variant-translation/{id}` -> `GET /admin/product-variant-translations/{id}`

>     - `GET /shop/product-variant-translation/{id}` -> `GET /shop/product-variant-translations/{id}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
It's included in the removed endpoints below

1. The following shop endpoints for getting the translation resources have been removed:
    * `GET `/shop/taxon-translations/{id}`
    * `GET `/shop/product-translations/{id}`
    * `GET `/shop/product-variant-translations/{id}`
    * `GET `/shop/shipping-method-translations/{id}`

   The fields those endpoint were exposing are available on their respective translation subject resources.

1. Update in Translations Handling

   The process for creating or updating translations via the API has been refined. Now, the locale for each translation
   is determined directly from its key, making the explicit transmission of the `locale` field redundant. Although the

>    API continues to support the explicit sending of the `locale` field, it is essential that this explicitly sent locale
>    matches the key in the translation array. In cases of a mismatch between the key and an explicitly sent locale, the
>    API will respond with a `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Exception\TranslationLocaleMismatchException`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   API continues to support the explicit sending of the `locale` field but in cases of a mismatch between the key and an explicitly sent locale, the
   API will respond with a `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Exception\TranslationLocaleMismatchException`.
```

> 1. Disabled product and taxon editing at `/admin/product-taxons/{id}` operation to improve data integrity. To modify a
>    productTaxon, remove the existing association and create a new one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Product and taxon editing at `/admin/product-taxons/{id}` operation has been disabled to improve data integrity. To modify a product-taxon relationship remove the existing one and create a new one.
```
We still allow modifying the `position` field, so the sentence `To modify a
   productTaxon (...)` might be misleading.

1. The keys for adjustment endpoints' responses have been changed from `order_item` to `orderItem` and `order_item_unit`

>    to `orderItemUnit`.

Reviewer: A partial diff of the response would be nice here just to illustrate it.

### Miscellaneous changes

1. All the `:read` serialization groups are now split to `index` and `show`.

>    By this change, the `:read` serialization group is now deprecated and will no more used in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The `:read` serialization group is now deprecated and will no longer be used in the future.
```

   There is a BC layer that will allow you to use the `:read` serialization
   group `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\SerializerContextBuilder\ReadOperationContextBuilder` by adding the `read`
   serialization group to your context.

>    Inside of this service there are 2 configurable parameters `$skipAddingReadGroup` and `$skipAddingIndexAndShowGroups`
>    that will allow you to skip adding the chosen serialization group to your context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
The same thing is explained right below, just with a config file and not PHP variables

   To configure skipping adding the index and show or read serialization groups to the context, add the following
   configuration to your `config/packages/_sylius.yaml` file:

    ```yaml
    sylius_api:
        serialization_groups:
            skip_adding_index_and_show_groups: true
            skip_adding_read_group: true
    ```

> 1. Sylius serialization groups have been updated with a new prefix of `sylius:some_resource`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. All Sylius serialization groups have been prefixed with `sylius:`.
```

>    If you extend any of the Sylius resources, you should update your serialization groups to use the new prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you extend any Sylius resources, you should update your serialization groups to use the new prefix.
```

>    Non-prefix serialization groups are deprecated and will be removed in Sylius 2.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Non-prefix serialization groups are considered deprecated and will be removed in Sylius 2.0.
```
Since we can't actually deprecate them

1. Typo in the constraint validator's alias returned

>    by `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Validator\Constraints\ChangedItemQuantityInCartValidator::validatedBy` has been fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   by `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Validator\Constraints\ChangedItemQuantityInCart::validatedBy` has been fixed.
```

    * `GET` `/shop/product-variant-translations/{id}`
    * `GET` `/shop/shipping-method-translations/{id}`

   The fields those endpoint were exposing are available on their respective translation subject resources.

1. Update in Translations Handling

   The process for creating or updating translations via the API has been refined. Now, the locale for each translation
   is determined directly from its key, making the explicit transmission of the `locale` field redundant. Although the
   API continues to support the explicit sending of the `locale` field but in cases of a mismatch between the key and an
   explicitly sent locale, the API will respond with
   the `Sylius\Bundle\ApiBundle\Exception\TranslationLocaleMismatchException`.

1. Product and taxon editing at `/admin/product-taxons/{id}` operation has been disabled to improve data integrity. To
   modify a product-taxon relationship remove the existing one and create a new one.

1. The keys for adjustment endpoints' responses have been changed:

    ```diff
    {
      ...
    - "order_item": "string",
    + "orderItem": "string",
    - "order_item_unit": "string",
    + "orderItemUnit": "string",
      ...
    }
    ```

> ### Miscellaneous changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Miscellaneous
```

1. All the `:read` serialization groups are now split to `index` and `show`.

>    The `:read` serialization group is now deprecated and will no longer be used in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The `:read` serialization groups are now considered deprecated and will no longer be used in the future.
```
